this video is gonna have a little bit
different format because for the first
time I'm going to be talking at my
boyfriend off camera I'm gonna see if
that makes my videos have a little bit
more natural flow because I'm actually
talking to somebody rather than talking
to a camera however I have to admit
talking to the camera is probably a good
practice um you know my boyfriend and I
we've talked about how it can be
therapeutic to go back and watch your
videos and maybe it's even more
effective than having a therapist
because you don't have to actually go to
the office and explain every little
detail or like everything about the
story that is bothering him to somebody
else like you can actually look back at
the video and see what's bothering you
and I gotta say that's that's really
what happened with the last couple
videos that I made where I was talking
about the different medications that I
was taking and my health problems and
really I got to the point where I
decided I was just gonna quit on my
medication and I also decided to start
this new diet at the request actually of
somebody that left a comment so I am
happy that despite my small audience on
YouTube I actually did get a comment
from somebody saying that I should try
the clear skin diet and that started me
on a pathway to eating just potatoes
sweet potatoes kale so I did we're not a
fan of their comedy supports about the
diet hominy yeah yeah so I did listen to
the book I got the audiobook so I did in
effect read it and the principles are so
basic that I'm surprised I didn't think
about it beforehand or know about it
beforehand but I mean the basics are if
you eat a lot of oil the oil is going to
show up on your skin and the bacteria
that forms acne lesions feeds on oil so
the less oil that you eat the less acne
that you will have and the less fat
content really in general so I am
currently
eating no seeds no oils of any kind and
so far it's really worked for my skin I
stopped I had it written down here I
stopped all my medications I think
pretty soon after my last video that I
uploaded so December 4th was the day
that I've stopped basically all my
medications so since then I mean my skin
looks clear it's so I gotta say it's
positive on that front but it's also
positive on my digestive issues I you
know I did actually see a doctor as I
mentioned in my last video I did see a
doctor and I got the test results back
and a referral to see a
gastroenterologist which I've decided to
not do because when I called they
basically 100% wanted to do invasive
they didn't want to have like a consult
with me like the doctor wasn't gonna
talk to me and I wasn't gonna have an
office visit prior to going in for a
colonoscopy like a colonoscopy was gonna
be the first line of defense and yeah if
you you can look up you know I I really
do agree with what dr. mcdougal says
about colonoscopies and seeing what
happened with my father throats you know
and even my mom who doesn't have any
digestive issues they just do it as a
routine procedure and it's really
invasive and you know it's damaging and
does risk and what can you find yeah you
know no joke cancerous polyps sure for
the vast majority of these conditions
it's a pleasing illusion that there's
something visible to the naked eye
they're gonna discover yeah the cool
thing about this having this channel
having this YouTube channel is you know
I know it's only been two months since I
stopped everything I can keep you know
keeping track of how it goes and
hopefully I continue to stay at this
level I gotta say it was really
difficult to you you have improved you
haven't mentioned that year I'm going to
say you should get like some sensitive
yeah oh yeah so did you sort of even
read his diet how much better is your
whole life being so much better and I
gotta say like even um you know my
mental health has improved and you know
I was having I was causing a lot of
problems in my relationship and you know
I really had like a mental breakthrough
in my opinion when we were on this trip
to basically say like I have to be
responsible for my own behaviors my own
actions I can't let myself be controlled
by my moods and I do wonder how much of
like my mental thought process has been
affected by medications that have been
on in the past you know behaviors that I
didn't problematic things that I did in
the past saviours can become comfortable
under medications like maybe if not
necessarily direct cause-and-effect
right then yeah yeah yeah and I mean I
did I didn't mention it in one other
video but um I can't be more explicit
now like I did spend time I took
antidepressants at the you know
recommendation of just my primary care
physician I didn't see a psychiatrist I
just came in and said I was feeling
hopeless about my career situation was
hopeless yeah the time I was I was
feeling very hopeless you know he asked
me do you experience this every day or
is it once in a while because his basic
his promise the promise of it was if he
it's once in a while then I'll prescribe
you xanax if it's every day then I'll
prescribe you lexapro and so I took the
medication that was every day because I
you know so for I don't know a period of
as opposed the possibility that you feel
hopeless because your life is really
hopeful sorry
right I know a lot about what was going
on your life at just that time you're
right yeah rational response to your
conditions yeah yeah so and I also for a
long time smoked marijuana and that
really played a role in my development
of my thought processes how I handled my
emotions stress release relief you know
what did I do to handle stress I relied
on medications or relied on drugs or you
know I didn't I wasn't I was never a big
drinker of alcohol but you know for a
while I was drinking alcohol when we
when we first got together I mentioned
this to a friend today
you know looking
not necessarily direct effect the drugs
one of his first with you I remember
saying to you like you know stand up
straight make eye contact with people
like when you should initiate this guy
like and introduce yourself and like I'm
over saying to you once like do you know
your mouth is open like you kind of
stand there hunched over with your mouth
not hanging way open like it's like you
look like you're stoned and you work
you'd already quit marijuana before we
got together yeah but these things don't
go away
yeah right no it's true any attitudes
can be the thing that sorry it's all
true yeah and there and there indirectly
form in the first place but the drugs
you can't like say it was a real simple
cause and effect there but yeah there's
yes definitely and I think part of my
attitude that has to change is like you
know I've been thinking about this a
while like instead of being constantly
feeling like I'm a victim of
circumstances or victim of health
concern health issues and stuff like
instead to take the attitude that I am
the protagonist in my life like I have
to be the good guy in my life like I
have to be the person that I want to be
and I think that's a huge huge change in
my life that that I'm still working on
yeah so because you know you really have
to take take control of what you are
feeling and not let yourself be consumed
by the emotions that you're experiencing
and just immediately reacting to the
emotions or you know reacting to what
somebody says rather than you know
thinking about what you're going to say
realizing that your actions and your but
what you say out loud is permanent you
know like you can't take it back even if
you think in your mind like I'm a nice
person or I'm a good person
I I am an honest person or something if
you if you do things that are bad if you
do things that are mean if you if you
say things that are not true or if you
lie I mean those what you do reflects
who you are as a person
even if inside you feel like you know
I'm a good person I think one of the
weirdest
about exactly what you're talking about
this is what all Buddhists will
recommend meditation for yeah I think
the irony is that meditation is really
irrelevant to the type of
self-discipline and moment to moment
awareness that that you're talking about
it's a very hard thing to teach it's a
very hard thing to learn
it's of everything to make people aware
that they lack right but what you're
describing how is like gradually over a
two-year period you know you kind of
just started paying more attention to
what kind of person you are and how yeah
and how you feel and how feeling is is
related to how feeling links to knowing
and doing and stuff but I really don't
think you get that by sitting in silence
you know staring at a wall which is one
that is one traditional form of
meditation is wall gazing as its called
ya know it's it's and of course also we
do Buddhist policy that's not really
what it's supposed to do but yeah yeah
yes yes extra ironic coming out of my
philosophical back because I think it's
if this hurdle a lot of people have to
get over yeah it's every day practicing
what you actually believe and you know
even in the past like I don't know a
couple weeks like I've been stressed out
about things and I had to be like okay
no this is exactly what I'm talking
about if I'm if I'm momentarily stressed
out or if I'm momentarily annoyed by
something I need to think of things as a
bigger picture and realize that these
problems are pretty and significant or
even if they are significant there's a
way to approach them that is respectful
of the other people around you that is
respectful of yourself like you know why
why would it be better for me to indulge
in my emotions to an indulgence say like
you know I'm so annoyed I'm so
frustrated or whatever like rather than
just saying you know I'm an adult I can
handle these situations if I can't
handle it now when at age 26
when will I ever be able to handle these
you know things and that everybody else
every other adult has to deal with you
know yeah I think you you know a big
powerful thing in our culture was the
image of the Vulcan and Star Trek where
it's like what isn't the alternative to
having emotions is allegedly to be this
robotic
cold logical person and it's not yeah
but all the time with you have said to
you like look I like feel sad like
understand what you feel so I understand
what you feel frustrated but know now
that you have that feeling and you feel
you have that feeling what's next it's
not this like now don't then don't take
these next steps right yeah right you
know I think that's the thing too and
you see me I'm out again I mentioned
this and having a few times I camera
sometimes when I'm just talking about
political history like I break down
weeping with wasn't talking about people
being massacred or the other day I was
talking about a pro-democracy protesters
who was murdered by the police and you
know I feel it and like you know I could
stifle it I could stand there and
totally what's the point
I care about democracy I care about
history I think it's cool to feel that
and even to openly exhibit least these
circumstances you know I agree I know I
don't I don't break down weeping front
my daughter actually just my daughter
asked me democracies of course all these
things way less emotional in that
context during a professional class but
sure I think it's really cool to be able
to feel that even revel in that feeling
but what you know ISIL has said to me in
these conflicts is you know treat me
like even like with the enough as much
respect as you would a work colleague
and you know he's he's never seen me in
a professional work other than okay
aside from being a fledgling ESL teacher
that's what do you see me as you know
like learning the ropes and you know not
being that great and it um you know
that's what he has seen me but you know
he has not seen me in my professional
work situations in which I have been
professional in which I have treated
people with respect but you know I I
need to be able to translate that into
my personal relationships and be kind
and caring and like actually loving to
the people who I love rather than using
the people that I love as you know
whipping post or like to be like you
better punching bag yeah like I'm I'm
upset and you're going to be suffering
because of it rather
than like you know and also like working
to solve a problem together like so many
things that I've caused issues within my
relationship with ISIL is like you know
there's a problem
that we both can work on together
there's a problem that we both want to
solve or there's just some issue that
that that comes up on my end and if
anyone is on my side it's ISIL you know
it's my my life partner is my best
friend you know
so why why would I treat him
disrespectfully and yeah so anyway um a
lot of these yeah just to give oh
there's a totally harmless example but
it's a real one and maybe some people
know ants can relate to it but like
you're angry because it's hard to find a
bathroom at the train station
yeah and that's real and again I'm not
saying don't feel angry right but then
why are you angry at me and taking it on
me and my point is I'm not just saying
this because you a lot of people live
their lives that way every day and it
can be like an employer who's mad at the
employee or vice versa or you're the
mother who's mad at the kid that's like
right yeah it's not happens all the time
for no reason
you're angry because you're frustrated
trying to find a bathroom at this train
station
but oh you're acting this that you're
treating someone you love as a punching
bag you're treating someone who's
actually trying to help you and you
sympathize with us but probably you're
the only person in this train station
you know you have to you have to value
the people in your life who do care
unless I see maybe it's hard to be
loving when you're upset because you
want the bathroom bathroom yeah but
that's exactly the challenge you have to
rise up to it
yeah it's exactly when wheel's gonna do
exactly when you have to prove that
you're a nice person that you're a good
person or you're a loving person is when
you're in difficult situations because
it doesn't it doesn't matter if you're
like you know that isn't really that
difficult of a situation okay we're in
France and we're taking care of your
daughter and I need to use the restroom
at the train station right it's really
not that big of a deal and
should be able to respond to it right or
even you can even share with me that
you're upset and frustrated well you can
share with me but don't like take it out
on you right yeah yeah so facing up to
that is really important and I you know
because like big life changes but you
haven't yet said how many generators
yeah yeah yeah so the clear skin diet it
works man like I know the way that I
went about it like quitting my
medications and changing my diet at the
same time it's really you know what I
did talk this through with my partner
before before I stopped all the
medications and he said well now you
won't know whether it's the diet or
whether it's the medications but you
know I gotta say like hormonal acne runs
in my family and I really think if I
would have gone back to like an oily
seedy diet I would have started breaking
out I can't say I haven't had any
pimples
since stopping this you know I have had
a couple but they've gone away way
faster they haven't been like cystic
acne you look like a normal person you
don't look like a person who has perfect
skin right but you also do not look like
someone who is hormonal like your system
yeah and one thing that you know is
important in their book is getting rid
of oil and any of your products on your
and also in your hair like your haircare
products and yeah my boyfriend does not
relate because he's 13 and it blew my
mind
yeah and when I was 13 like labeling
food this way it was a new thing like in
Canada
the food and it was like I would stand
there and be like why would anyone eat a
food product that's 51% oil yeah I would
why just burn all that stuff yeah rub
oil on your face oh yeah yeah don't okay
so you don't use oil no media made sense
a thousand years ago in the middle of
the desert like you know what I mean
there are other cultural historical
context but yeah a lot of it it really
doesn't make sense right yeah and I you
know I have had the experience now the
care products that I was using were
whatever affecting my scalp so I do have
you know some pimples on my scalp I know
it's gross but but I do and I've
switched my products and I've improved
you know like things are better so I I
really believe in the principles the
diet works I didn't think it would um
you know for a long time because I
talked to dermatologists about it I said
should I avoid certain certain foods and
you know the only thing that they said
like oh well dairy is often a problem
and I think dermatologists across the
board do you generally recommend not
consuming dairy if you have acne but
it's not just dairy you know it's all
sources of oil and fats in your diet and
yeah I mean I gotta say this this diet
is the real deal if you have hormonal
acne really considered this diet and
actually doing the diet and and I know
you know I am kind of an interest I have
a different perspective on food than
most people in America that I've met you
know I don't for you I don't want fun
yeah food is not recreation food is not
about hanging out with your friends yeah
I don't I don't live to eat I you know I
eat to live yeah and this is you know we
went to Los Angeles over the summer and
I made it my mission to try Donuts like
and you know we were you know we were
planning on becoming bakers at the time
so you know we were trying to look into
every vegan bakery
so yeah I've eaten like and I also take
the attitude like I have eaten all this
stuff like especially when I went vegan
and people were like oh how can you live
without me or how can you live without
cheese it's like you know unlike Dean
and Randa I wasn't born vegan I was not
encouraged to be vegan or vegetarian at
all growing up I have had a lot of
cheese I've had a lot of different kinds
of meats and I don't at all like I don't
crave it at all like even after like
after I made the moral decision or like
after the switch went off I was like
this is all disgusting to me like I
don't want to eat this I remember the
very like the first night that I decided
my
my ex-boyfriend he cooked up sausages
and you know he had a plate for me and I
just I just said like I can't eat this
like it's disgusting to me now even
though like the night before I'd eaten
it you know um so yeah like I know it's
not the same ethical it took old reasons
for the clear skin diet it's not like
oil is ethical I know that's not the
case but still like for my health
I've had a lot of seeds in my life of
avocado as I've had a lot of nuts and
peanut butter I I don't I don't need it
and even if I do decide like in the
future to add some of these things back
and see how they affect me because you
know that is part of the diet too like
seeing slowly if you want to try to add
soy back into your diet if you want to
try to add flax seeds back into your
diet and you can see if it causes you
issues but yeah the diet really works I
am totally on board with it
yeah I remember I was a kid maybe I was
11 something yeah I heard about someone
who's probably a relative of mine why
not who lost their legs hmm and I just
thought well if I lost my legs car
accident you know what
what would I do yeah and I immediately
thought well I'd really devote myself to
philosophy you know history politics
studying books cuz obviously I can't do
much with my body and I really thought
about the dietary element to it's like
well can't really get much exercise so
he'd have to eat this very strictly
regimented diet and stuff and then of
course the question came to me look
let's say I was 11 years old it's like
well why aren't I living that way now
why is it that the thought experiment of
how I would live if I was physically
crippled is so much better
you know ethically but not just Africa
yeah it's so funny
well reminds me and and that haunted me
yeah really and I certain already then
you guys start changing where I live
it reminds me of you know because the
Nina and Randa diet is basically
MacDougal diet but even stricter no
seeds and no soy um because of that I
looked at mcdu
website and I was also interested about
the digestive health issues for the
mcdougal diet does this help and it
really does like I it I have experience
going from like horrible issues to being
like it's no big deal and I did I did
these I did these trips that I had to be
on the airplane for 12-plus hours and
through airports and all kinds of
security lines and waiting around and
stuff and you know I did fine it was
great and um yeah I mean things have
things I've improved even even more
since I got back from the trip that we
were on but yeah like I just feel really
really positive about the diet and you
okay sorry what I was gonna say what you
reminded me of because of that I looked
into some videos on the MacDougal
website and there was this discussion of
a woman who had Crohn's disease
throughout her whole life and she
finally switched I heard about the
mcdougal diet in her 70s and she said
that you know this I am happy that I had
Crohn's disease and found out about this
because now I'm living healthier like I
would not have found this diet if it
weren't for my disease so she's actually
like in this way like like your family
member that lost their legs like I mean
this inspired them to live a better life
so oddly enough yeah yeah for people in
the audience don't now stop and think
about leading a meaningful life now get
your history yeah hey another additional
like because I was on this this
medication spironolactone for so long I
didn't realize that any of any of the
side effect and I don't know if it's
also from this I think the diet also
helps like I can tell like my nails are
growing faster like I have like more
hair going in here like like all over my
head and you know I'm like I didn't
realize my hair was kind of like thinner
than it could have been because yeah so
like I mean I know these are minor
things but it's it really is true if
you're like having more if
like I'm having better digestion and I'm
eating way more way more like protein
rich foods like you know I'm having tons
of beans yeah that's pretty much my diet
right now so I'm having a lot of black
beans yeah what you're eating link in
the description this is true good anyway
alright great so yeah clear skin diet
works man